according to my parents family or the
community i grew up in i'm a failure
you know insecurities i'm not good at
this i suck
most people think that life's about
avoiding the pain i'm here to tell you
right now it is about really
experiencing the pain when we want
something our brain only shows us the
good side of it it doesn't show the
sacrifice required for it it's not a
quick fix it's not going to be a bullet
it actually takes work
most people think that life is about
avoiding the pain i'm here to tell you
right now in a very controlled fashion
it is about really experiencing the pain
learning from it so ray dalio the most
successful hedge fund manager of all
time has a perfect math equation pain
plus reflection equals progress
if you don't feel the pain you never
reflect on it so my thing is i spend 80
of my time focused on the beautiful
things in my life the things i'm
grateful for the beautiful things that i
want to bring into existence all of it
20 of the time though i'm in the
darkness man i'm in that tim grover
relentless i'm going to make this happen
if i have to break myself and i'm not
afraid to lean into that because i know
how powerful it is now if you really
want to put numbers how powerful this is
they did a study and they wanted to find
out what happens how can we get people
to endure more pain and the punchline is
hilarious so they would take people and
they would submerge their arm in a
bucket of ice and they would just
hold it there as long as you can now at
first it's just cold but after a while
it really starts to hurt and so people
would end up yanking their arms out
they found that people could hold their
arm in the bucket 35 percent longer if
you let them display anger
so put it in they get to that point
where they're about to pull it out and
you tell them yell cuss do whatever you
need and they'd be able to do it they're
the expression of intensity even what
i'm doing right now i can feel myself
ready right i'm ready to strike my
muscles are tense i've got a different
posture i bring my chin down there's
intensity in my eyes like dude i'm now
feeling that because i'm embodying it
right so it makes me really feel that
and so i actually started to tell the
story earlier i hate the gym but what i
would do to make myself work out is i
would my wife would be on the opposite
side of the gym and i would stare at her
and i would imagine her being attacked
by people bigger than me and that the
only way that i could fight them off is
to get stronger there was nothing
beautiful in it i was not worried about
aesthetics i was worried about saving my
wife and by stepping into that dark
place and because people were like what
are you doing yeah
but dude that was i needed that
motivation to push past what i want to
push past pain boredom all of it and
just to really get into it and get a
result but i find that people shy away
from that look to me it's an 80 20 split
if you're spending more than 20 of your
time there it will be corrosive yes it
will start to erode your sense of self
because you're going to feel badly right
because i would be saying to myself
you're weak come on like you've got to
get stronger if you spend 80 percent of
your time doing that that sucks yes i
don't want to live like that right but
not being able to dip into both you'll
just never hit the level of
extraordinary you may be fine you may
even be good yep but you're never going
to be great according to my parents
family or the community i grew up in i'm
a failure that's crazy and
how did i back the trend
i was really really fortunate
that very early on i started to
experiment with what mattered to me
sometimes i got me in a lot of trouble
what people don't know about me is that
i was suspended from school three times
for
trying out all sorts of things like
things that people would never imagine
of someone who goes on to be a monk i
was experimenting with all the drugs in
the world i had multiple relationships i
was really trying to search for some
sort of meaning fulfillment and as far
as long as i've known i've been chasing
thrill i really value thrill and feeling
like i might not see that coming yeah no
not many people do it's it's very
different from 14 to 18 i was like this
kid who just wanted to try new things
out
and my parents rhetoric would always be
well make sure you get good grades and i
used to think well if i can be bad and
get good grades then then it all works
right everyone's happy so that's that's
kind of what i did
and at 18 i was really fortunate when i
met a monk
and this monk was invited to speak and i
kind of just went because one of my
friends forced me to at that time i was
listening to ceos and entrepreneurs and
business people and marketers who who i
thought that's what i was aspiring to be
like
and then i hear this monk
and he captivated me like no one had
ever captivated me before
it was like staring at the most
beautiful woman on the planet you know i
was completely fixated on him and his
message
and that is the beginning without going
into too much detail before we probe
that was the beginning of what changed
me
because i went from being someone who
did only want all those things to become
successful and trying to
but i started hearing my own inner voice
much more in all that noise that i had
around me i remember one of my my
parents had a maths tutor for me because
they wanted to be amazing at maths and i
was i was pretty good at numbers and i'd
have this tutor and he'd tell me that he
goes the reason that you're struggling
with the next question
is because you're always worried about
what your parents think
and and that really stayed in my head i
was just like wow so as long as i'm
trapped by what my parents think i can
actually never find the answers to the
real questions of life
and there are all these little things
happening i lost two great friends when
i was 16. one girl died in a car
accident one guy died because he was
involved in drugs and violence
that that made me rethink everything i
just thought to myself wait a minute
these were beautiful people people that
i loved
people that in my opinion were good
people
and i just lost them in a moment and it
was kind of like this collation of
little things that just made me think
wait a minute having money
having fame
this that
just doesn't seem to add up and then and
then meeting the monk kind of made that
shift possible yeah i used to have a lot
of negative self-talk about
you know insecurities i'm not good at
this i suck i mean if we really want to
go down the rabbit hole you know my
older sibling exposed me to drugs and
alcohol when i was nine and so yeah and
so that really and you liked it or well
i i took to it yeah so i i mean it's
crazy for people listening you know i
got arrested twice before
at the age of 15. arrested at 12 and 15.
shoplifting and then for drugs at 15. so
the reason why i bring that up is i felt
really dumb right because you know
remember dare don't do drugs all the
stuff in the 80s you know if you do
alcohol before this or if you drink or
smoke your brain is going to be stunted
you're you're going to have learning
disabilities and so i started to like
believe that stuff and i literally
i remember my freshman year of high
school after i got arrested cleaned my
life up my dad kicked me out you're not
kicking me out but had me go to rehab
outpatient rehab the best decision ever
changed my life got into fitness and all
that
but i really struggled in school and i
really believed that i was dumb i was
like i'm just i'm not like these other
kids
and back then my brain wasn't because of
my my prior five six years
so i had a lot of catching up to do
but that mindset that i'm dumb and i'm
not able to learn i'm not able to talk
with people still lingered with me
and it wasn't until
college that i started to like kind of
slowly change it but this aha moment
that what if i do have cancer made me
realize that i can't hang on to that
crap because my time like we always
think we're gonna have time i may not
have the time that i think i do to
impact the world that i want to and
leave a legacy
and i was like dude i can't be nervous
for interviews it can't be nervous for
video i gotta create content i gotta
write i gotta research because i realize
that like
if i have 10 years five years three
years whatever
it's finite right and we get wrapped up
in our insecurities and making money or
doing this but i think
you know if we can find our the best
expression of serving other people that
can be
an associate that can be whatever
everyone has different gifts and i think
that's what's so beautiful about the
earth
so it was just a mindset shift and it
was really subtle
and i think it's important for people to
hear that because
you know i don't have necessarily weight
issues i don't have blood sugar issues
most people you know searching for
health related topics are trying to lose
body fat trying to balance your blood
sugar
but i have other issues that i'm dealing
with and i
we need to have a positive mindset that
our body and our mind are malleable i
think the things that we tend to be
passionate about we don't even realize
we're passionate about them because they
seem so
normal and obvious to us i remember when
i was in in music school i was
practicing i played guitar so i was
practicing like six hours a day
just beating my head against the wall
trying to learn all these different
songs and stuff and i just i hated it
was a grind and it felt like a job i was
supposed to do and i remember actually
right before i quit i uh there was a
there was a kid in the program who was
like
you know he was an all-star like he
everybody knew he was gonna make it you
know um and it's funny today i think he
has two or three grammys but um
so like i found him in the cafeteria and
i sat down with him and i'm like oh man
like i don't know like how do you
can you give me some advice man he's
like yeah sure what's going on i'm like
how do you practice this much like i'm
practicing like six hours a day
you know how much are you practicing
he's like yeah six hours a day and i'm
like but yeah but how do you like stay
motivated
how do you like what's your warm-up like
you know like how do you how do you
schedule your practice time and he's
just looking at me like i'm speaking
klingon like he's he's like
what are you talking about like
i just practice like
i always practice like whoa
it didn't even compute for him
and then i was like okay i should
probably quit um
[Laughter]
so jump ahead like five six years i'd
started blogging
and i would go to these like internet
marketing conferences and stuff and
people would start coming up to me and
they're like oh man i love your blog man
like your articles they're they're like
10 20 pages long you're posting like
multiple each week and i'm like yeah
thanks like man it's incredible
so uh
you know what's your writing regimen
like like
how do you get yourself motivated you
know it starts asking me all these
questions and i'm like looking at him
like
what are you talking about like i just
write
you know i just sit down and write you
know i don't even have to think about it
and uh
and it kind of like rung a bell in my
head of like wait a second like that's
that's that's something that's like
that's a signal that there's something
special about this because for whatever
reason
what seems to cause other people a lot
of stress and pain
comes easily to me
and what
causes me a lot of stress and pain you
know
came easily to to the guy who did make
it through music school um and so i
realized that it's it's not about like
grit or willpower or just like wanting
it enough it it's a lot of it too it's
just
we're all
masochists a little bit you know like we
all there's some pain in the world that
we all
it gets us off a little bit and
i found mine and uh
and so yeah i just you just you just
keep hitting that like you just
keep going and
i think people when they're when you're
so focused on pleasure and and pleasant
rewards
you don't actually get to that question
you don't actually get to like yeah
what's what's that pain that like
actually kind of
gets me going you know and
because we all have it and that that's
that's the sweet spot when you can find
it all right guys if you're gonna unlock
your potential and achieve everything
you've ever wanted you're going to have
to constantly be making progress towards
your goals so what do you do when you
get stuck the bad news is getting stuck
happens to everyone at some point it's
pretty much unavoidable but the good
news is that if you're willing to take
action there is a framework that you can
follow to get back on track if that
sounds familiar or if you're stuck in a
rut and not achieving your goals as fast
as you want i've pulled a class out of
impact theory university that you need
to watch right now it's called six steps
to getting unstuck and you can watch it
for free at unstuck.impacttheory.com
inside i'll teach you about how to use
cognitive reframes my four level value
stack to becoming unstoppable as well as
the single most important thing to start
doing today
to regain momentum to watch this free
preview for impact theory university go
to
unstuck.impacttheory.com
i'll see you on the inside guys alright
take care and now back to the episode
[Music]
i know she's old school so i need to go
to her dad yeah and i go to her dad and
i say you know i want your blessing to
ask your daughter to marry me
and
in the nicest way possible he says no
my wife lisa had always warned me
my dad's gonna quiz you when i introduce
you my dad's gonna quiz you introduces
me he almost doesn't look at me okay no
quizzing get to know him a little bit no
quizzing seems kind of disinterested
he'd ask me a question and then wouldn't
even listen for the answer
so but when i say i want your blessing
to do just like starts going through all
these questions and the the final
question was
how do you plan to take care of my
daughter because he was very successful
okay and he said my daughter's become
used to accustomed to a certain
lifestyle
and how are you going to provide that
for
and i said sir i know what you see right
now is a broke unemployed kid wow but
i'm the most ambitious person you've
ever met and i will one day make your
daughter rich
and he said
thank you i hear that i still don't want
you to marry my daughter now important
to acknowledge he's always been
incredibly kind to me he was just very
clear that he did not want me to marry
his daughter yeah and so that was like
whoa like the gauntlet has been laid
down i'm going to rise up to this and so
in my soul i'm like i've got this man
i'm going to do this i'm committed
there's no way i will not get rich now
because i'm gonna take care of that
woman i'm gonna show him that i'm right
and then the next morning i lay in bed
for three hours maybe four and the day
after that three four hours again why
because it was cold i didn't want to get
up and put a sweatshirt on and literally
walk the eight paces and so i would
sweat it because she was working and my
job was to make her lunch and she would
come home and we'd eat lunch together
and when we get to the punch line of
what i'm like today even i have a hard
time believing that was really me so
then these two successful entrepreneurs
walk into my class and up to that point
i'd promised myself two things so i grew
up chubby in a morbidly obese family
and
with no money and i said one day i'm
going to be rich and one day i'm gonna
have six-pack abs
and that was my promise and these guys
walked in and they were rich and they
had six-pack abs
and they said look we're starting a
technology company why don't you come be
a copywriter
and i was like absolutely and it's one
of those where people like what are you
doing like you're leaving the secure job
for me i was like they're like unicorns
to me yeah they are literally the thing
i'm looking for yeah they are rich and
they have six pack abs they're gonna let
me into their company yeah and so their
whole pitch was look man this is a
startup you can have any job in this
company you want you just have to become
the right person for the job so it was a
tech company it was in this beautiful
office overlooking the pacific ocean
every single person in that company had
a floor-to-ceiling window overlooking
the pacific ocean except me and they put
me in the server room which had no
windows and a bunch of computers all
worrying and making noise and i remember
one of the guys was like who's the kid
in the server room and so that's how i
became known i was the kid in the server
room i know anything about business i
would bring my wife jesus to visit me in
the office and i'm like look how
beautiful the office is and this is
where i'm at
you know and like literally like those
makeshift desks that are like really
like a table that you would use on a
picnic but you've got computers stacked
on it that's where i worked all day come
on brother and so that just being around
other people now who had that same kind
of drive yeah and i remember now people
are really going to enjoy this one we
used to race to see who could relax our
bladder the fastest and finish peeing
sooner and that like that got me
thinking at tempo right like you're
snapping and that literally i could feel
it make my brain speed up what it was
it's one of the most surreal things now
since then i've read studies you can the
number of patents filed in a city is
directly correlated to the speed at
which the average citizen walks 20 yards
on the sidewalk come on let that sink in
so that little like and i'm obsessed of
the chills now i'm obsessed with the
physiological hooks that can help you
develop your mind and moving fast and
being made fun of by the way when i move
slowly when we want something our
our brain only shows us the good side of
it it doesn't show the sacri the
sacrifice required for it um and
everything every experience you have in
life
there is a sandwich part of it you
know there's there's everything has its
associated problems um
but our brain doesn't think about that
when we're pursuing it and so uh for me
like one of the most powerful heuristics
is to simply instead of thinking about
what benefits i want uh in my life i i
try to think about what problems do i
want in my life um
you know it's something as simple as
like you know people might see this show
and they're like oh damn i wish i had a
badass show like that on youtube you
know it's like they don't understand
like there's a whole crew here there's
logistics there's like waivers you gotta
get like clear through lawyers and all
sorts of crap and it's like those are
the problems you chose you know those
are the problems that you wanted to have
and that's why it's a successful show
it's not just because it's like oh damn
having a show would be awesome you know
like it's easy to just want something
you know if you go to the gym it's like
challenge yourself to do something new
take a class that you know like my wife
just at the age of 37 decided she want
to learn how to swim and she's like
mortified of it you know
but i'm like hell yeah go do it you know
like that's
because it's not just about swimming
it's it's about just developing that
consistent habit of like
stepping into your discomfort and as i
said he was completely captivating and
then i found out that he'd given up jobs
in google and microsoft to be a monk
and i thought to myself who does that
you know he's given up everything that
i'm chasing
and that all my friends are chasing
but he seems happier than anyone i've
ever met before
and he spoke about this incredible
principle where he said that we should
plant
trees under whose shade we do not plan
to sit
and he was speaking about this principle
of selfless sacrifice and that kind of
just penetrated me right there when he
said the words selfless
sacrifice for the first time in my life
i felt a thrill about something that i'd
never felt before i thought wow
giving up
everything you have for the service of
others
sounds like the best thing you could
possibly do and i don't know why i had
that thought because i wasn't a
spiritual kid growing up i wasn't a
religious kid growing up i wasn't even a
good kid growing up i was just a rebel a
misfit trying things out and
experimenter which i still consider
myself and so what i started to do is i
was interning
at companies and firms and corporates
thinking i was getting a grad job
afterwards and then i'd spend the rest
of my summer holidays interning in india
living with him as a monk so i'd use all
my summer and christmas holidays to just
be out there with the monks and he
introduced me to another 200 to 500
monks that were just like him just as
smart just as bright giving up
everything they had and using all their
skills to make the world a better place
[Music]
uh some people actually have uh aberrant
robust you know
lighting up of some of these structures
uh make the layer ones people usually
think of but in these subcortical
structures some people actually
correlates that they light up more and
they have
greater addiction in that group so
there's a structural element there's a
life context
element and then there's also the
the frontal lobe element and that
thinking of creating new habits
and creating new values
creating less triggers in your life
that's the opportunity that we all have
and i think that's the project you're
working on what's the stuff we can
control without zapping ourselves and
without putting pills in us those things
set the boundaries but the frontal lobe
regulation of how we feel
is
in your own
command and
you've seen it in buddhist monks you've
seen the mind-body connection in
deep divers there's actually two nerves
that come down and wrap around the heart
they can think down their
pulse they can think down how fast their
heart beats this is not like baloney
this is you can put ultrasound we can
look it up online you see videos of it
that shows that thinking
can change
thought
can change how fast your heart
why wouldn't we believe that thought
can change
those subcortical structures about
anxiety and depression
if you get depressed you're sort of you
know
you can get stuck but people who
aren't having those mental health issues
but just want to be better and live a
more rich life in the sense of personal
experience we can think about our lives
and our habits and triggers and create
effects inside us the mind-body
connection is is mine down the body and
many people feel you know body back up
to mind and that's where meditation and
and meditative breathing come in but
those connections are real you see
examples around you if your frontal lobe
can only help you five percent and
somebody else is all dialed in and helps
them fifty percent doesn't matter that's
your best and that's an avenue available
to you but it's not a
it's not a simple one
it's not a quick fix it's not gonna be a
bullet
it actually takes work and you mention
repetition it takes work it takes effort
and there is no shortcut to it but it's
a glacial change
that can happen over a few months to a
few years and i think once you know like
people go to the gym they can't not go
to the gym anymore i think people who
find these
rituals and habits that make them feel
better they become addictive to that and
they're constructive and they're not
pharmacologic i began to discover brain
plasticity so i'm laying on the floor in
my apartment i'm flirting with
depression i just don't know how i'm
gonna make anything in my life feel
hopeless and lost and so i start reading
about the brain
and reading in college revealed itself
to me as as the way to gain knowledge
and so i start reading reading about the
brain i see there's this debate going on
this is like
late
90s early 2000s and
there's a camp of people saying no no
you can learn even like to your last day
on this planet but it was highly debated
it's not anymore but it was then and i
said i choose to believe that i choose
to believe that i can grow and change
and so i start reading voraciously i
start thinking about brain plasticity
and getting better
i take a job as a teacher and realize in
teaching them i'm able to make their
films better and if i can make their
films better why can't i make my own
films better so that starts to rebuild
me and i start thinking of myself as
someone that needs to grow and learn and
get better so it's now called a growth
mindset you can now get a book on it you
can watch a thousand youtube videos none
of this existed back then which is why
all the stumbling around and but i start
reading and i start reading voraciously
and it starts to build my belief system
and that belief system ultimately is
what completely changes my life but
first i need some more pain and
suffering i didn't think i had a problem
i didn't think that
i thought my parents didn't understand
me or whatever this is what kids do
i mean come on you know people smoke pot
and drink all the time you guys probably
did it too
and i didn't realize how behind in
school i was i didn't realize how
stunted emotionally i was i didn't
realize that i couldn't effectively
communicate with people like literally
verbally and look people in the eyes all
that because i hid behind the substances
you know and the little relationships
that i had back then were all under the
influence and so it forced me to get
outside of my comfort zone
and learn new skill sets learn how to
approach women learn how to read i had
to re-learn how to read alphabet
multiplication tables literally
and how did it get into to weightlifting
is my stepmother introduced me to a
chiropractor
and he said you know what
to get stronger and everything you need
to to do these compound movements squats
deadlifts presses and they're just like
you look you have potential mic you need
to just course correct here
and
yeah so that's how i got into it and you
know i realized that if i can change my
body i could probably do the same thing
to my mind
the weights gave me a lot of
self-confidence and then eventually that
gave me the self-confidence that i can
learn in school and then i did the
pre-med route and everything like that
and so
without the weights i don't think i
would have had that and the ability to
change my physique
probably would not have had the
self-confidence that i could learn
biology and that i could actually study
and do the mcat the medical school
aptitude test and things like that right
so i think a lot of people look at
people that lift weights and think
meathead or you're just doing this for
looks but there's so many so much
carryover mentally that occur and so
that's why i love to have all my clients
do
some sort of resistance training or some
exercise that's quantifiable a lot of
people go to the gym and just do the
elliptical for 20 minutes but you can't
really quantify if you're gaining you
know if you're improving or not because
you're just doing time or you're looking
at heart rate so if you're going to do
cardio i recommend training with watts
or power if you're doing yoga it's a
little bit easier to quantify because
you can see if you're getting into a
position better you can hold it for
longer and weights and even crossfit or
powerlifting offer that feedback so we
know for improving i'm a huge fan of the
book thinking fast and slow i don't know
how if you've read it yeah it's a great
book because for me it's got a really
close pattern connection again to what i
studied so just understanding system one
and system two if anyone watching hasn't
read it i highly recommend it just being
able to differentiate between system one
and system two as daniel kahneman calls
it in the vedic philosophy we call
differentiating between the mind and the
intelligence
knowing how to differentiate the voices
in your head is the first level of
self-awareness so break down what system
one and system two are absolutely so
system one is your initial response to
anything that happens it's it's a stop
that i can't really say so if you say
something i don't like
my system one naturally would be a face
that i pull that i don't agree with that
that's that's an understanding of what
system one in it's your initial
default reaction in the moment that can
be positive often for example if someone
pulls out a knife you feel scared and
you run that system one that's a good
thing it's it's safe for you but also
system one is someone says something
that hurts your ego and you start
defending yourself immediately that's
also that's a negative of system one
that we would refer to as the mind it's
built up of conditioning those responses
are conditioned those default elements
are all there because of habit and
continuous practice
the system two is more like the
intelligence what i would say is more
like the parent if you can consider
system one to be more like a child
system two is more like a parent it
looks more at the long term it looks
more at the bigger picture it processes
that default reaction through a set of
checking and metrics to decide whether
that's true the child is the the one
that wants everything right away
impatient quickly responding straight
away uh reacting when it doesn't get
what he wants
the intelligent parent and good one
knows what the child wants and needs and
what's better for in the long term
just starting there
and being able to reflect and observe
the different voices inside of us is a
great place to start your self-awareness
because the biggest challenge is that
most of us don't know what we're
listening to and we don't most of us
don't even know that there are more than
one voice inside of us
just getting over that line is a huge
win
because now at least you're trying to
differentiate
in what you're hearing and that's going
to help you make better decisions in the
future emotions should never stop you
from achieving your goals so if you feel
stuck overwhelmed low on confidence
you're beating yourself up or you feel
like you're not deserving of the things
you want in life i have something to
tell you emotions are not facts and you
should never let them hold you back and
yet i find that people do this all the
time they mistake that feeling for
objective truth and it sends them in
this downward spiral
[Music]
reaching greater levels of success in
life means knowing how to use your brain
and if you're in a rut right now or if
you've been struggling for a while to
achieve your goals then i've pulled a
class from impact theory university to
help you get back on track it's called
six steps to getting unstuck and it's
for anyone who wants to know the exact
steps to achieving big goals when life
puts challenges in your way if you want
to check it out go to
unstuck.impacttheory.com
to get access it's a free preview
alright guys i'll see you on the inside
now let's get back to today's episode
[Music]
it's the way the brain prefers to get
its fuel source and it's based on a diet
lessons about dieting learn through
controlling
epilepsy and seizures in kids in areas
where there's no medicine
so i was in ukraine
and
when they don't have medicine or a type
of seizure seizures the abnormal
electrical activity of the brain just
like an arrhythmia would be an abnormal
electrical activity of the heart
uh they would just feed them all fat
diet you could smell it in the hospitals
so something about an all fat diet
forcing you into just using ketones
now intermittent fasting is back and
forth glucose and then ketones glucose
and then ketones but for kids if you
just get them almost nearly all ketone
as the source that goes up to the brain
through an all-fat diet
their
seizure rates
go down you know so that's proof
that food
changes mind
because the mind is the electricity
sparking through that flesh
food
will change the electricity detectable
measurable
electricity in your brain
food affects mind food affects brain
with that premise
we can talk about okay mind diet will
hold off
dementia and intermittent fasting
might make you feel like you've had a
cup of coffee once you're getting a
rhythm on it it's not going to make you
smarter but it'll bring you to your most
focus to bring you to your most
attentive it's not oh i'm intermittent
fasting and now i can do physics it's
it's not like that it's
your personal best and then the habits
you demonstrate to your family by trying
to be at your personal best and then
your kids see that and your friends see
that and i think that's how you impact
generation change is to have uh capable
people demonstrate hey it's not hard and
this is the best we can do for ourselves
if somebody's struggling mentally the
first thing that i would recommend to
them is to go work out
and the reason is the
self-respect self-belief are i think
some of the biggest things that people
struggle from and sitting there and
looking in the mirror and telling
yourself that you love yourself is it's
probably not a bad start but it's never
going to get you there because if you
don't do something that you actually
respect you're not going to develop the
self-respect working out
lifting it's hard it's difficult you
have to sustain effort but you do see
that loop of i did this thing i stayed
focused i was disciplined i pushed
beyond my comfort zone and i got a
result and i look better which triggers
that intrinsic like when you look better
you feel better as you're getting
stronger you feel better you have that
more confidence but it's fascinating to
me how few people are able to apply that
to the rest of their life like you'll
see a lot of people they crush it in the
gym they obviously understand that you
put in that effort and you get this
tremendous reward but they don't make
the leap of if i can do it to my body i
can do it to my brain so it's not that
you know body fat obs can have problems
and challenges and is linked with
inflammation and where your body fat
sits
is a big deal but that's where i think
it gives people power because it's not
just about your diet it's about your
sleep your relationships your stress
management you know your mindset
exercise your kidney rhythms there's all
these things and if you
you know just relegate food to just
calories you miss all that
but it brings back to what you were
saying it's not about being right you
know and i think
people and i've learned this myself i've
had to have an open mind like because i
read negative ketogenic diet studies
because i want to challenge my own
beliefs so i don't i'm not in this echo
chamber i talk about those negative
ketogenic diet studies and when i'm
reading it i'm trying to have remove my
bias it's very hard as human beings our
mind is wired to be very biased we're
constantly when we watch videos like
this or read books we're trying to
confirm what we already believe you know
what i mean and so we need to kind of
remove ourselves from that a little bit
and and realize that's how we're wired
and we're
set up that way but it doesn't mean we
have to be that way
to keep the flesh healthy
uh you have to irrigate it
and that has to do with your brain
arteries
and
since we already said it's not a it's
not a ball
you know it's these uh you know these
jellyfish and they're moving and they're
throbbing and they're pulsating and
their tentacles are reaching out there's
a lot of space in between
and that extracellular space outside of
the actual cells outside the neurons
outside of the jellyfish if you will
it's not just water
there's chemicals floating around in
there now dopamine might be just from
technical to tentacles
you know serotonin might be this way but
what's it what's in all the stuff around
all those billions and billions of
neurons
they're growth factors
and minerals
and chemicals that the brain naturally
has but there's also a soup that these
billions and billions of neurons are
floating in bdnf is a key component of
that soup that helps regulate the health
of each of those uh jellyfish or nerves
and we can trigger more of that exercise
yeah you exercise it releases it it
showers itself it's not like the thighs
thigh muscle sends it up to the brain
the brain says hey i'm feeling good this
is good i like this
i'm gonna create a new rut i'm gonna
remind you you feel good when you run
the brain will shower itself with growth
factors there are growth factors brain
says hey you know the electrochemical
balance is better with those so i think
that's where you get the runners high
it's not just adrenaline it's not
dope it means a happy chemical i'm
jacked up i'm on adrenaline it's just
such a complex ecosystem
and rather than feeling uh
intimidated by that to me i just see
opportunities
on how people can you know improve their
lives when i think exercise is too easy
um
too easy and too hard actually the way
we live
to me
with my kids i've been trying to drag
them to the gym we got a new membership
and all that but
changing
what shows up on the counter
is powerful
and if we ate less and if we ate
efficiently and we did you know it's a
less carbon imprint
i think all of those things is good for
the planet it's good for us it's mind
and body
and and then it's also
communal
you know then then it goes to the next
generation it's not just something i did
at equinox and with my yoga mat in
malibu
and then i think it can perpetuate so
it's not just an individual thing